What is ICA-AtoM?
=================

ICA-AtoM stands for "International Council on Archives - Access to Memory".
It is a web-based, open source application for standards based archival
description in a multilingual, multi-repository environment.

This is awesome!

==================
Technical overview
==================

ICA-AtoM comprises:

HTML pages served to a web browser from a web server. Apache is used in
development but ICA-AtoM is also compatible with IIS.

A database on a database server. MySQL is used in development but
ICA-AtoM uses a database abstraction layer and is therefore also
compatible with Postgres, SQLite, SQLServer, Oracle, etc.

PHP software code that manages requests and responses between the web
clients, the application logic, and the application content stored in
the database.

The Symfony framework that organizes the component parts using object
orientation and best practice web design patterns.

The Qubit Open Information Management Toolkit, developed by the ICA-AtoM
project and customized to make the ICA-AtoM application.

=========
Web-based
=========

All user interactions with the system (add, view, search, edit, and
delete actions) take place through a web browser. Users access HTML
pages on the web server; clicking a button or link triggers a PHP script
that sends a command to the database and returns the output as HTML back
to the user's browser.

===========
Open source
===========

ICA-AtoM is built with open source tools (Apache, MySQL, PHP, symfony)
rather than proprietary software. The underlying Qubit Toolkit code
developed by the ICA-AtoM project is itself open source, with the source
code freely available for use or modification as users or other
developers see fit (under the A-GPL version 3 license). Therefore there
is no cost to download any of the software required to run the ICA-AtoM
application.

===============
Standards-based
===============

ICA-AtoM is built around International Council on Archives (ICA)
descriptive standards:

* General International Standard Archival Description (ISAD) - 2nd
  edition, 1999
* International Standard Archival Authority Record (Corporate bodies,
  Persons, Families) (ISAAR) - 2nd edition, 2003
* International Standard For Describing Institutions with Archival
  Holdings (ISDIAH) - 1st edition, March 2008
* International Standard For Describing Functions (ISDF) - 1st edition,
  May 2007

ICA-AtoM supports Simple Knowledge Organization System (SKOS) - W3C
Recommendation 18 August 2009.

ICA-AtoM is designed to be flexible enough for adaptation to other
descriptive standards; see descriptive standards.

============
Multilingual
============

All user interface elements and database content can be translated into
multiple languages. The current version of ICA-AtoM (1.3) supports the
following languages:

* Arabic
* Dutch
* English
* Farsi
* French
* German
* Greek
* Icelandic
* Italian
* Japanese
* Korean
* Polish
* Portuguese
* Slovenian
* Spanish

================
Multi-repository
================

ICA-AtoM can be used by a single institution for its own descriptions or
it can be set up as a multi-repository "union list" accepting
descriptions from any number of contributing institutions.
